My name's Tom Goguen.
I'm the Director of Server Software here
at Apple in Worldwide Product Marketing.
And I just want to welcome
you all to this session.
I'm only here briefly.
Basically, what we wanted to do was
to provide all of you with,
essentially,
the view or the perspective of
third parties doing projects,
enterprise-oriented projects,
on Mac OS X and Mac OS X Server,
and to give you that sort of perspective
on what we're trying to do here.
So I'm going to introduce a
couple of gentlemen in a moment,
and we'll talk a little bit
about what they've been doing.
And then they're going to spend
the bulk of this time talking
to you about what they've done
on Mac OS X and Mac OS X Server.
So, enterprise applications in
a heterogeneous environment.
That's just too many syllables for me
at this point along the line of the day,
so we'll just skip through
this one really quickly.
So on our agenda today
is going to be Infosys,
and they're going to talk about
enterprise IT architecture.
They've got some customer
scenarios and some great examples
of things that they've done,
some really good information
around best practices,
working with the products,
and what they're doing.
And from Infosys,
and I'm going to read from my notes
here because I want to get this right,
and I'm never great with names.
We have Amit Seth, and Amit is the
Senior Technical Architect at Infosys.
And he's done a number of
IT integration projects,
and Amit's going to come up here
in a moment and talk to you about
what he's done and how he's done
it and show you in depth on how
he's pulled all of that together.
Following Amit,
we have Steve Olson from Sybase.
And I've known Steve for a while,
actually.
Once we started going down
the Mac OS X server route,
I got talking to him about bringing
Sybase's enterprise class database
server over onto Mac OS X server.
And it's been a great relationship.
Steve's the Technical Director for
Sybase Engineering,
and Steve actually was in charge of
the Sybase port to Mac OS X server.
And if you've followed
what Sybase has done,
they literally are, in some ways,
they're driving us.
They've pushed us to do things that
I think would be of interest to a lot
of developers and a lot of IT people
who are looking at using the platform.
For example,
Sybase has really done a lot of
innovation around the management
console and is taking advantages of
some of the APIs that we're starting to
make available in the management console
for third parties to plug in their
information into the management console.
So, we've been able to do a lot of
things with the server admin.
So, take a look at what they've done.
It's really exciting stuff.
They've helped push us in a
number of other directions
as well in terms of really,
you know,
helping us to make Mac OS X server
really rock when it comes to databases.
And we've got some new technology
going into Panther Server,
things that, of course,
people would generally just skip over
very quickly in something like a keynote,
but are of great interest
to people like me.
Things like AsyncIO going
into Panther Server.
Which will really,
really help with database performance.
So,
first we're going to have Ahmed Seth come
up and talk to you about Infosys
and what they're doing there.
And then Steve's going to come
up and talk to you about Sybase.
And after that, there should be a little
bit of time for Q&A.
And let me just make sure I click this.
This is kind of interesting what
you will learn in this session.
I always like that they
put these slides in here.
But basically what we want you to
get out of this is we want you to
have a chance to take a look at,
you know, what third parties are doing,
what people are doing with
large enterprise class
applications on the platform,
how they're doing it,
how they're doing it to meet the
needs of your typical mixed client,
mixed server enterprise environment,
how they're deploying and using
our technologies to do that.
So, I hope you take away a lot of that
good information and get some great
ideas about what you can do with
your products and what you can
do inside of your environments.
So, without further ado,
I'm going to hand it over to Ahmed.
Thank you.
Thank you, Seth.
Without further ado,
I'd like you all to provide a
nice warm welcome to Ahmed Seth.
Ahmed.
I'm Amit Seth,
representing Infosys Technologies.
Infosys is a leading systems integrator
with more than 15,000 employees.
In the last few years,
Apple has been coming up with
some really exciting products
in the enterprise state.
The XServe,
Support for open source softwares,
the OS 10 server version,
This has really got us excited,
and we have been
developing some solutions.
for the Using the Apple Technologies,
which we wanted to share with you today.
In today's session on
Enterprise Applications in
a Heterogenious Environment,
I'll be talking about
From a system integrator's perspective,
what does an enterprise
IT architecture look like?
What are the main components
of this architecture?
And I'll use some examples of
applications that we developed for
each of these components to showcase
how we leveraged Apple's technologies
in an enterprise heterogeneous
environment to provide solutions
for some common business problems.
A few words about Infosys.
We have more than 15,000 employees,
more than 370 clients.
35 offices in 15 countries,
and we are still growing.
We pioneered the global delivery model,
and
We have, our greatest strength has been
our ability to deliver projects.
95% of the projects that we have
delivered have been on time,
on budget, or better.
We are financially a very,
very strong company.
Our financial strength has
been growing year over year.
Last year, we closed our fiscal year with
net revenues over $750 million.
We have cash reserves
of over $235 million.
We have partnered with some
of the industry leaders,
and most of our clients are in the
Fortune 500 and Fortune 1000 companies.
Let's move on to what is our perspective
of an enterprise IT architecture.
It's slightly late on a Friday evening.
I want to inject some life into this.
Providing
Some real good insights into
why we are dividing this into
these kinds of components.
When we look at it,
we are essentially looking at
some eight different categories
in an enterprise IT architecture.
These categories are the
thick client category,
The business components.
Business components are the reusable
components which can be shared
across multiple applications.
Client access services,
which include the application servers,
streaming servers, web servers,
and these are,
this is essentially the layer
between the clients and the server.
Application Security Services.
These determine the authentication,
the security, the user profiles.
Enterprise APIs,
the programmable interfaces,
which allow data to be shared across
multiple applications within an
enterprise or over the Internet.
Bus services allow computing in a
distributed computing environment,
include the domain name services,
directory services, CORBA, COM, IIOP,
Operating system provided services,
which essentially include input/output
services and network services.
And the last category is the
server hardware platform itself,
which includes the processor
hardware for the server.
So these were the eight categories
that I spoke to you about.
Let's move on to our first category,
that is client solutions.
Now in each of those eight categories
that I was talking to you about,
in this session, we'll touch upon some
six of those categories.
I'll be talking to you about
a common business problem
in each of this category.
A solution which we developed
leveraging Apple's technologies
to address that problem and how we
were able to integrate that solution
[Transcript missing]
Things like the transaction model,
support for threaded transactions,
conformity with the existing
IT infrastructure and strategy
for deployment and distribution
are important when we need to
consider solutions in this space.
Let's take a look at the implementation
scenario for a particular solution
that we developed in this space.
The application is a
mobile sales application.
What was the customer
situation in this case?
The customer situation was that
they had field sales representatives
who already had Apple's PowerBooks.
There were...
They did not have any kind of an
integration with the central CRM package,
which was on a different platform,
which had a different technology.
They did not have an application to
integrate from their PowerBooks to
the central CRM database.
And the client was losing business.
They were at a decision point whether
we need to go in and buy a product from
the market and go in and replace our
Apple PowerBooks and provide people with
laptops based on other technologies,
or to continue with their carrying the
Apple's PowerBooks and develop some
kind of a solution which allows them to
leverage the central CRM database that
already exists within the organization.
We identified the business drivers for
the solution that needs to be developed,
in this case,
as an application that can allow better
collaboration between the sales teams,
and which essentially allows
that the solution that the sales
representatives are going to use to
integrate data with the central CRM,
enabling better reporting,
better decision making
for the senior management.
The solution that we proposed
was an offline solution
that can run on a Macintosh,
because these are field salespeople,
they're moving around.
And the ability for this solution to
integrate with the central CRM database.
Why did we go in for Apple,
the biggest driver?
They already had Apple's Power Books.
Also, Objective-C and CoQA allowed us
to rapidly develop an application
to be used by the sales
representatives in this company.
We developed a complete three-tier
solution to run on their PowerBooks.
We had a client built of
Objective-C and CoQua.
CoQua using Objective-C.
A server, custom server written in Java.
And we took an open source database,
that is PostgreSQL database,
and installed it on their machines.
Then we wrote some custom
classes to allow them
To allow this local server,
the local Java server
running on their machines,
to exchange data over socket
connections with a server running
against the central CRM database.
This essentially allowed
will be presenting the first
session of the session,
Data Synchronization between their local
databases and the central CRM database.
Let's look at the details of
the technical implementation.
So what you see on this side
is what was already existing.
This was their central
CRM database hosted in a data
center within their organization.
What we developed was a
three-tiered solution.
We were looking at the
choice of databases.
The client wanted a...
Cost-effective way to install database.
It was a database to be used for
a single person on a PowerBook and
We looked at the open source
databases that were available.
The two databases that we zeroed
in on were MySQL and PostgreSQL.
We selected PostgreSQL based
upon the fact that it had
better support for transactions.
You could do rollbacks,
you could write functions.
And at the time when we
developed the solution,
PostgreSQL was the only database,
open source database,
which was truly Unicode compatible,
when we compared MySQL to this.
MySQL, at that time,
you could have a Japanese version,
you could have a
Western European version,
but nothing which allowed
you to support everything.
I believe the latest version
of MySQL does support Unicode.
So this was our implementation.
The server was communicating with
a server within the data center.
And that server was essentially
dealing with the database,
was sending in transactions
against the database.
The solution enabled us to
To prove that on an OS X PowerBook,
you can essentially have all the three
components required for an application.
The client, the server,
and the database all running together.
And it's been a stable application.
It's been one of our
good implementations.
Let's move on to our second category,
that's the business components.
When we talk about the
business components,
we are talking about reusable
components which can be shared
across multiple applications.
When we talk about components that can
be shared across multiple applications,
the things,
the major considerations in this
case are what kind of functions and
services do these components offer?
What kind of interfaces are available?
Those have to be standard interfaces
to be implemented across applications.
The development and deployment
of these components have to be
independent of the applications with
which they are being linked with.
Let's take a look at a
typical implementation
scenario for this component.
The implementation scenario for
this component is an automated
fax-integrated application.
It's a very easy solution,
a very simple solution,
but resolved a big business problem.
When we came in,
we saw that the customer situation was,
it was a large organization
with a lot of employees.
are different geographic locations
who essentially use to submit their
expense bills for reimbursements.
They had to fill in a form which
was being driven by an application.
They used to fill in,
"I spent so many dollars in traveling,
I spent so many dollars in food,
I spent so many dollars in business
expenses." Submit that form.
And then the original bills had
to be mailed to a back office,
where someone used to
look at those bills,
relate it to who submitted it,
Checkmark on that form, yes,
this is correct.
And then approve the request.
This was a manual,
resource-intensive process
in that organization,
and it was becoming a
big overhead for them.
So they were essentially looking
around for a solution that allows
them to automate this task.
The solution that we proposed was
the electronic submission of bills
along with their expense details.
What made us select Apple in this case?
What made us select
Apple in this case was,
one, it was a low-cost solution.
It was easy to monitor and maintain.
and it was extremely easy to integrate
this in the existing infrastructure.
We'll take a look into the technical
details of how we did this.
What we did was,
we took the open source package EFAX,
compiled it on OS X.
We also took ImageMagick,
compiled that on OS X.
Actually,
OS X versions are already available
on the net for ImageMagick.
eFax allows us to receive fax messages.
The process that we defined was that
an employee prints out the expense
bill form from whatever they submitted.
That expense will form,
has a barcode printed on top of it.
They then take the original bills and
this form and fax all of them together.
That fax is received by the electronics,
the e-fax.
And it uses ImageMagick to convert
that TIFF file to a GIF format.
Tiff-to-GIF conversion was
required for a barcode reader,
which they already had
within their organization,
a software which could
essentially read the barcodes.
And then we wrote a small
custom component which allowed
us to submit those forms
against those electronic bills,
the copies of those electronic bills,
against the actual form
within the application.
Now, normally,
This kind of a solution would have
entailed going in for a small server,
for a small platform,
[Transcript missing]
They came up with a few other things
where they were submitting copies of
the original documents electronically.
They wanted those to be
submitted electronically.
And this solution allowed us to
do that because essentially that
barcode that we were printing on it
was a tag which allowed us to route
it to any kind of an application,
to associate it anywhere.
We implemented it for one application,
but we left the architecture open
for them to go in and implement
it later on with any other
application that they wanted to.
Again, in this case,
the only component that we brought in was
and XServe with the electronic facts,
image magic,
installed on it and just plugged it
into their existing IT architecture.
Let's move on to our third component.
That's the client access services.
Client access services are
essentially the layer between
the client and the server.
The common implementations
like web servers,
streaming servers,
Enterprise Application Servers,
where it's
but with the trend that's
going on in the industry,
it may change to
Enterprise Java Application Servers.
It's still not
Enterprise Java Application Servers,
though.
[Transcript missing]
An implementation scenario
where we went in and implemented
a solution in this category.
What was the client
situation in this case?
The client situation
was that the client had
A very, very big,
it was a big corporation.
They had more than 10,000 employees,
and they had a central
human resources application.
That could be used by the
employees on their workstations
to do all the HR-related things.
Writing reviews,
managers used to write reviews,
employees used to submit
their leave applications.
That was essentially the central
HR application within that organization.
And they had a problem that,
because this was based
on the workstation,
Employees could not use it while
they were traveling or while
they did not have access to the
workstations in their offices.
So they wanted a way to access
this information anytime,
anywhere.
[Transcript missing]
Also, another driver in this case,
like in any organization where we go,
[Transcript missing]
They had been using a lot of
custom code in the database.
So it did not allow you to
go in and build something on
top of the database directly.
So you could not go in and build
a web application and go in and
interface with the database directly.
That was an issue in this case.
That is why the problem was not
as simple as just writing a simple
web interface to a database.
Why did we go in for Apple in this case?
We went in for Apple's technologies
was because WebObjects on
OS X provides us with an excellent
platform to go in and build
Web-based applications.
It's also a very cost-effective
way and allows us to develop
applications very rapidly.
The architecture that we implemented
and the solution that we provided
allowed us to reuse most of the existing
components within this application.
This is what we did.
So on your right side,
you are looking at--
The way the application used to
exist within their environment.
They had an enterprise HR database,
and they had their custom server,
which was interfacing with this database.
The custom server did have
APIs defined to go in and access data,
That was it.
I mean, you couldn't do too much.
[Transcript missing]
Our own framework, which we compiled with
the WebObjects code,
which allowed us to interface with those
APIs and provided a layer between the
custom server and the WebObjects server.
So the WebObjects server was
communicating with the custom
server in this environment.
[Transcript missing]
was a very,
we could develop this really fast,
and it allowed us
and I are here today to build
a very cost-effective solution.
We deployed the entire thing on an exerf,
a single exerf,
The solution is being used
as and when the employees in
this company travel outside,
as and when the employees want
to access it from the web.
More than 10,000 employees are
using this kind of a solution.
[Transcript missing]
Between applications in the same
organization or over the internet,
Major considerations when we have
to go in and provide a solution
using enterprise APIs are:
We have to consider object persistence.
We have to consider the
transaction services.
Transaction services is
essentially the core.
The Data Access Models and the
Data Distribution Services.
Let's take a look at a common
implementation scenario in this space.
The application that we developed in
this space was a call center application.
The client situation when we
went in was that the client was
losing business because of the
lack of a call center solution.
The current way in which
they were tracking calls was
they used to receive calls.
They had a very,
very rudimentary way of going in
and entering it into a database.
They did have a proper database,
but the way they were using
that database was in a very,
very rudimentary fashion.
And it initially started with the
client being a small-time company,
and they grew up rapidly in
the space of a few years.
So the model that they used
initially just could not scale up
to the kind of requirements that
they had in a few years' time.
The business problem that they were
facing was that they were losing
customers because of their inability
to respond back to their calls on time.
And they wanted to address this.
The solution that we proposed
was a low-cost solution
With an ability to support high
transaction volumes that were required,
the ability to scale up even
further as this company grew up,
and the ability for this solution to
integrate with multiple data sources.
Why did we think Apple is the
best solution in this case?
Apple was the best solution in this
case because it provided us with a
server optimized version of Java.
A low-cost enterprise application
deployment alternative with
XServe OS X Server and with
JBoss compiled on that.
Support for open source
technologies like JBoss,
where essentially the,
The deciding factors in moving
towards this kind of a solution.
Let's take a look at the implementation
of how we went in and what we did.
So on the right side,
you're looking at what is colored
in orange is your existing
components that were already
existing within this enterprise.
These were the database.
With data inside it,
which was still meaningful,
but just that it could not really be
used or it could not really be leveraged
off given their current solution.
They had some reporting
applications on Windows,
which used to go in directly
against that database.
to come up with some kinds of reports.
Again, their reporting requirements had
grown over time and they were trying
to figure out how to enhance their
reporting solutions to come up with a...
to come up with a model where
they can have better reporting
and better call tracking,
and allowing the management
to take speedy decisions.
On your left side is
what you're looking at,
the solution that we implemented.
What we implemented was, we took
Some EJB components,
prebuilt EJB components,
open source components
which are available.
We wrote some of our own.
Use JBoss on OS X to host these
Our custom components allowed
us interfacing with the
current reporting applications,
whatever they had.
It also interfaced with the database.
We wrote some more components to provide
interfaces for even more reporting
application as were being required.
And,
made the entire solution such
that it could scale up with
the growth of this company.
So essentially,
putting in this kind of a middle layer of
EJB components on an XSERV allowed us to
use the existing reporting applications,
the existing database,
[Transcript missing]
I'll move on to our next category,
which is operating system services.
[Transcript missing]
From our perspective,
hold solutions in the storage and in the
distributed computing environment space.
Storage falls also under
the server platform stage,
but in our classification,
we have classified it under the
operating system services space.
The major considerations that we as
solutions providers have when we start
looking at solutions in this space are:
Is the solution really interoperable?
Interoperability is a
key in this component.
What kind of scalability
does the solution offer?
What kind of a performance
What kind of a security is
offered by the solution that we
have to develop in this layer?
Let's take a look at a typical
implementation scenario in this case.
We had this organization where there were
multiple clients on different platforms.
They wanted to share
files across platforms,
and these were large-sized files.
These were very large-sized files.
This was a geographically dispersed
organization with offices in
multiple countries across the globe.
Considerations like sending
files over wide area network
repeatedly was an issue,
a resource drainage issue.
Considerations like the ability to
make the large size files available to
the persons on time were a big issue.
They also wanted a low-cost file
storage solution along with it,
because the files that were being,
essentially the solution that
they were looking for was,
I put the file in your system,
there are a set of business rules,
the file gets stored,
and it also gets distributed
to multiple locations,
wherever the other users are who have
subscribed to this kind of a file.
The subscription is being determined
by the business rules which
are built into the application.
So let's take a look at the
implementation scenario in this case.
The solution that we proposed
was a low-cost storage solution.
The client also had an
issue with insufficient rack
space in their data center.
So the solution that we proposed
was a rack space friendly solution.
We provided a solution that
could be dovetailed with their
existing IT infrastructure.
Why did we think Apple is the
best solution in this case?
Apple with Mac OS X server,
with Mac OS X, with OS X server,
essentially allows you
To support multiple
kinds of file protocols.
Also, XServe provides the lowest
cost storage in the industry.
And that is on the disk,
on the server disk.
And the fact that
XServe is also one of the most
rack-friendly servers in the 1U category.
So what did we develop?
Our technology implementation
in this case was,
we essentially went in
and installed XSERVs
at those multiple locations.
The initial solution that we provided,
we actually provided the
solution in two phases.
The initial solution that we
provided was to go in and install
XSERVs at multiple locations.
[Transcript missing]
To actually go in and do NFS mounts
from the XRFs and add in files.
This was done because the first
solution that they wanted and
the initial solution that they
wanted was essentially to leverage
had to be built in a very quick
timeframe in a really tight,
on really tight deadlines.
But what was common to the
solution was that it allowed
files to be stored, to be transferred,
between these multiple
XSERVs over TCP/IP protocol,
Over-socket Connections.
So, based upon the business rule,
files were transferred from
one XSERV to the other.
What this allowed was, one,
a large-size file only had to make one
trip over the wide area network to cater
to as many downloads as are required
by the users at a particular location.
It allowed storage of files
at each of these locations,
and also the fact that downloads
from the local servers were always
faster as compared to downloads
over the wide area network.
The second phase of the solution,
we did away with the
NFS mounting of that,
because that was not a scalable model.
That was a temporary solution
that we had to provide.
And then, that is when we went in for
essentially a small layer,
which could be installed on each of
these clients as add the file layer,
which...
[Transcript missing]
and were then being distributed
in this kind of an environment.
This is one solution where we
essentially leverage the low-cost
storage provided by XSERVs and the
XSERVs ability to be installed as a
rack-free server in their data centers.
Let's take a look at some of
our best practices when we go
in and implement solutions.
Like any systems integrator,
we are strongly focused on using tools.
Our best practice is that we
have got a dedicated team which
just works on identifying tools,
[Transcript missing]
Debugging frameworks which allow
us to do a lot of debugging
with a Java application.
Tools which allow us to do
distribution of software on Macintosh.
There are times when
there are some challenges.
We have developed some tools
which allow us to do that.
We also have well-defined processes and
methodologies for software delivery.
When we talk about software delivery,
we essentially have processes falling
into three different categories.
These categories are whether
it's a custom system integration,
whether it's a solutions
systems integration,
or is this an infrastructure
systems integration.
These are the three main categories.
And our processes differ
slightly for each one of these.
What is common to all our processes
and the core set of processes
that we have developed around
all these three are pertaining
to technology change management.
Technology change management
is implemented in three stages:
the planning stage, the analysis stage,
and the deployment stage.
In the planning stage, we go in,
we study, just as I was presenting,
we go in and we study what is
the solution that is required.
What are the business
drivers for this solution?
What kind of a cost?
Cost limit is there to the
solution that needs to be provided.
What are the different
parameters like scalability,
etc., that have to be
considered to use the solution?
We then move into the evaluation phase,
where we start evaluating the
different solutions against these
parameters that we have collected.
Do we need to go in for some
kind of a pre-built package,
pre-built software?
Do we have to go in and
develop a customized solution?
Can we just modify the existing
solutions that already exist in an
enterprise to resolve most of the common
problems that are surfacing today?
And then,
the last stage is the deployment stage,
where we start considering things like
How maintainable will this solution be?
How easily deployable is this solution?
What are the kind of training
requirements that will
be required in this case?
Can we plug in this kind of
a solution into the existing
enterprise architecture?
So those are some of our common
considerations and the best practices.
We have built our best
practices around these to really
fine-hone these processes.
Thanks.
My name is Steve Olson.
I'm a director of engineering at Sybase.
I promise you I won't be talking about
Oracle on Solaris or Oracle on AIX.
I'll be talking about Sybase on Mac OS X.
Before I do that, I'd like to ask you,
is anybody here a current
Sybase customer right now?
That's pretty much what I thought.
We decided last year to
move our product line,
some of it,
into the Mac OS X environment.
And we realized that we are
strangers to the Apple community,
the community of Apple users.
We live in different worlds,
or have been.
So I thought we'd take a few
moments here to introduce a
little bit about what Sybase is.
And then, after a couple of minutes,
talk about our database software that
we've moved over to the platform.
They made me put these slides in here.
So who are we?
Sybase started in 1984,
about the same time of
the Super Bowl commercial
that Apple produced.
And since then, we have expanded.
The first few customers that
we had were in Wall Street.
Wall Street folks needed an online
transaction processing engine
that would handle stock trades.
And they've stuck with Sybase
through all these years,
and right now about 60% of
stock trades in Wall Street,
E-Trade, and others are processed
through Sybase servers.
We have a very strong presence in
the financial services community,
banks, and so forth.
Healthcare, telecommunications,
and both state and local governments,
as well as federal governments,
are also strong customers of ours.
So the point I'd like to make here
is that... The same code line,
this code that has evolved
since approximately 1984,
is what we've moved over to the Mac.
The same code that is used by
our most demanding customers.
What we've done is not
provided you with Sybase Lite.
It's an industrial strength
online transaction processing
engine for Mac OS X.
And our software is localized for all
of the major languages of the world.
So we've deployed in just about
every country on the planet.
What's available today is our Adaptive
Server Enterprise version 12.5.03.
Just this week,
we've announced the availability
of Adaptive Server Anywhere
version 8-something,
and a number of APIs, JDBC, ODBC,
and our open client APIs,
and our open server product.
That's available right now.
Most of this is available as a free
developer edition download code
from our website at sybase.com/mac.
Later this year, we will be releasing
our replication server,
and for those of you who
may not know what that is,
think iSync for business.
It's basically bidirectional
synchronization between databases that
may be either enterprise databases,
laptop databases,
or Palm Pilot databases.
And also the Adaptive
Server Enterprise 12.5.1 will
be available later this year.
We are tying that to the
availability of Panther.
So although we will be ready
in approximately September,
we're not sure exactly yet
when Panther will be available.
So whenever that happens,
whichever comes first, I guess.
And then also later on,
Adaptive Server Anywhere version 9
will be generally available on Mac OS
ASE was first released in 1987,
optimized for online
transaction processing,
and we licensed it to Microsoft in 1988.
Microsoft took the source code,
the whole package,
and for a long time marketed
it as the Microsoft SQL Server.
And then we parted company with
Microsoft approximately 1997,
and since then our two product lines
have evolved in different directions.
They even got our name.
They have very good lawyers,
and that's about all
I can say about that.
But anyway...
We now call our product the
Adaptive Server Enterprise,
but because of this common heritage,
there still remains a very high degree
of compatibility between the two.
So applications generally written for a
SQL server should have little problem,
maybe some, but because of the evolution
of the product lines,
but there's still a high degree of
compatibility that will allow you
to move your application to Adaptive
Server Enterprise on Mac OS X,
if you might have an interest in
getting rid of the SQL server.
It's a SQL database.
We are SQL 92 compliant at entry level,
and we've also got a number of
extensions in the Transact SQL language.
When we decided to do
this port to Mac OS X,
we took a long hard look at
the Unix underneath the covers.
The first Unix port that we ever did
was with Sun OS back in the mid-80s,
and that was essentially Berkeley Unix.
So what we found with Mac OS X is
an old friend in a new coat.
Berkeley Unix is very,
very familiar to us,
and the engine and the basic
database components themselves
moved over to Berkeley Unix very,
very quickly.
So we looked then at, well,
what else can we do to tie in
more tightly and integrate with
some of the services provided
on the Mac OS X platform?
We looked at Rendezvous, the SNMP agent,
Open Directory,
the server monitor itself,
and then the install.
I'm not going to say much
more about the install,
except that we have a lot of
information on the Mac OS X platform.
We use Apple's Package Maker,
which provides you a command line
install facility on headless X-serves,
as well as a nice GUI installation
for monitored servers.
So a little bit about this architecture.
The engines depicted here
essentially equate to Unix processes.
Engine 0 listens for client
connections and dispatches
to some engine based on load.
We associate an engine with a CPU,
meaning if you've got a dual CPU system,
you can configure two engines.
Each engine is threaded so
that you can allow up to,
on the Mac, each engine can handle
about 1,000 connections.
So a total of about 2,000 users can
connect to this system at the same time.
If you've got two CPUs.
We use shared memory.
We looked at memory map files
versus the System 5 APIs for shared
memory and have so far adopted
the memmap as the interface to
create the shared memory region.
So essentially the environment we
found in Mac OS X was something very,
very familiar to us and very
compatible with our prior
implementations on Unix systems.
So we're very, very pleased about that.
And like I said,
it came together very quickly.
Within about two months we were
ready for an early adopter program.
And within four months we had
a general release available
in September of last year.
We used Rendezvous for
a number of reasons.
First of all,
we wanted the server to come up and
register with Rendezvous so that
a discovery client could recognize
where the servers are in your network,
or in the case of the
current implementation,
your subnetwork,
and allow a client to automatically
discover where they were,
get every bit of information
needed in order to establish
a session with that server.
So that's why we did it,
and it only took about
10-15 lines of code,
if you count the comments.
It was a very simple thing for us to do.
And we also provide a
discovery program on the,
it's a Cocoa-based application that
uses Rendezvous discovery APIs and
allows us to take a look at all of
the servers running in a network.
So in this screenshot
came from our QA lab,
and we have both the
database server itself,
plus some auxiliary servers that we
use for backup and other purposes.
So they're all Rendezvous enabled,
and the discovery tool allows
us to take a look at everything
that's running in the server.
And in this model, or in this screenshot,
the highlighted server here has
its host name and port number
showing up in the upper left corner.
And you type in a name and a
password and hit the query button,
and we'll launch a query tool that will
allow you to interact with SQL languages
and view the result sets and so forth.
Sort of an interactive SQL utility.
That interactive part is available,
or will be available,
in our 12.5.1 release.
In terms of SNMP,
does anyone here use SNMP in
your organization at all?
A few of you?
Apple provided an SNMP agent on
their server that came from NetSNMP,
which is another open source project.
The version provided with
Jaguar was NetSNMP version 4.
something, and we found that it had some
problems with the AgentX protocol.
The AgentX protocol is a means by which
you can extend the SNMP master agent.
So we have taken that model and provided
our own SNMP sub-agent that allows us
to monitor and view what's going on with
the various servers that we provide.
Our adaptive server database,
backup servers, and so forth.
And so if you have an
SNMP console from HP,
OpenView, BMC Patrol, Tivoli,
or the CA product, you can view what's
going on in the database.
And also the server state
changes generate traps.
So if you have a trap handling
enabled in your console,
you can be notified and configure it
to alert you through email or paging
or whatever you require when a server
might go down or a system might crash.
So that facility is enabled.
We provide version 5.1
of the NetSNMP agent.
And I believe in Panther,
that's what's provided in the box.
So we won't be providing our own
SNMP agent with our distribution.
We provide two MIBs
with the SNMP sub-agent.
The standard RDBMS MIB,
and then we have a Sybase MIB that
extends that to give you a great
deal more information about the
state of the running server.
This open directory authentication
is new in the 12.5.1 release,
but prior to this implementation,
when you log into our server,
you provide a name and a password,
or if you're using SSL,
a name and a certificate,
and we do the authentication
entirely within our database.
So, for the most part,
people use names and passwords,
and our database manages those
passwords in our system catalogs.
With this implementation,
you no longer have to worry
about the password situation.
We will use directory-native
authentication via the open directory
APIs to talk to open directory
and use their authentication
services to authenticate a login.
Now, we've learned a lot in the past
week about single sign-on and
Kerberos and what Apple's doing.
And we hope that by the time this is
released in the September timeframe,
that we will be able to achieve
single sign-on capabilities.
But I can't commit to that right now.
That's our plan.
We'll see how it goes.
Does anybody here use
NIS for Yellow Pages?
Most of you use LDAP or
Kerberos Active Directory.
Okay.
Monitoring and configuration.
Apple has produced a very
interesting monitor or server
admin tool in the Panther.
It's extensible.
It provides a Cocoa framework
that allows a client plug-in and
a server-side plug-in to monitor
and manage a facility or a service
running on a Mac OS X server.
So we were able to work with Apple and
they provided us with examples of
how to do that and have provided a
monitor or an admin component for
this tool that plugs into this tool.
So with this component,
we'll allow you to start
and stop the server,
to backup and restore databases,
to reconfigure it,
and to monitor the behavior of a running
system through various graphical reports.
So in this case, CPU usage,
but we also expect to provide
graphs over time of disk I/O,
network I/O,
max number of users connected,
and so forth.
Basically to let you track what's
going on inside the server.
So we're very enthused about this.
It's been a sore point with a lot
of customers because it's been
difficult to get this kind of
user interface on other platforms.
Apple understands these
interfaces very well.
And we're very happy that we're able
to take advantage of the look and feel
and the usability enabled by this tool.
So this will be available
in our 12.5.1 release.
And the title of this session is
Applications in a Heterogeneous World.
And I wanted to just talk for a moment
about how the adaptive server enterprise
is able to coexist with other database
systems that might be in your enterprise.
We have an interface within our
adaptive server enterprise called Omni,
or Component Integration Services.
And what it does is allows
you to set up tables,
we call them proxy tables,
which serve the role as pointers
to data that lives elsewhere.
So with standard SQL,
you're able to query these
tables as if they were all local.
And they might point to Oracle,
they might point to SQL Server,
they might point to DB2.
And when I say DB2,
I mean the world of IBM,
which might be on the mainframe, VSAM,
IMS, database, and so forth.
And, of course,
other Sybase servers are configured.
So if you've got Sybase
elsewhere in your enterprise,
you basically have a federated
architecture that allows you to have a
database that's able to do all of that.
So that allows you to have a single view
presented to your client applications.
A replication server has been a
very successful product of ours.
This came out,
was first available in cooperation
with a significant customer of ours,
Goldman Sachs.
And it allows us to publish database
changes from the adaptive server
enterprise to a subscribing server.
Maybe another adaptive server enterprise,
maybe Oracle, whoever it may be.
So, the reasons, I mean,
we initially did this simply to
allow customers to distribute data,
to aggregate data.
But lately, I would say about 70% of our
customers now use it for warm standby.
You can set it up to basically
replicate an entire database
to a warm standby server,
so that if your site
goes down for any reason,
you still have this warm standby.
So, the main benefits here are that
we're not restricted by geography.
We're restricted by the reach of
your WAN or your local area network.
And we replicate transactions.
We don't replicate any disk
files or anything like that.
It's transactions that are replicated.
So, in a failover scenario, for example,
in a disaster recovery scenario,
your clients may find that
they're no longer able to
connect to your primary site.
We have client-side failover built into
our client APIs that allow them to be
redirected to a secondary data center.
And this mechanism was used by a number
of our customers who had data centers at
the World Trade Center in September 11th,
and those that chose to were back
online in a matter of minutes.
I mean, they had other things
on their mind that day,
so it sounds bad that they were
able to get back up within days,
but in fact,
there were human considerations there
more than technical consideration.
Those that chose to were able to get
back online in a matter of minutes.
Through this technology.
And this has been used by
a number of customers for
disaster recovery scenarios,
for dealing with unplanned downtime,
somebody trips over a power cable,
or planned downtime,
you want to take your
systems down for maintenance,
upgrade, whatever the case may be.
In a warm standby scenario,
your applications talk
to your primary server.
Replication is being done for
the entire contents of that
server to a standby server.
And the replication model
is one of store and forward.
So the transactions or changes are
stored in a queue on the replication
server and then propagated to the
standby when they're committed.
We don't propagate
halfway committed changes,
only those transactions
that are committed.
If for some reason the primary fails,
client-side failover mechanisms
automatically direct the
client to the secondary site.
And the rep server can be told,
has to be told,
to change the direction of replication.
And when that happens,
the standby then becomes the primary
and the direction of the replication
is switched and the changes on the
secondary are stored in a queue until
the primary becomes... available.
And then when the primary
does become available,
the two are synchronized and
normal operation then can resume.
So that's a standard way that
the rep server is used in a
lot of customer situations.
[Transcript missing]
The rep agent then will
take these changes,
queue them,
and when the transactions commit,
replicate to various targets.
And that could be Oracle,
it could be Informix, DB2, or whatever.
We provide our own JDBC drivers.
It's a Type 4 all-Java driver.
And we also offer the Mac platform.
We licensed an ODBC driver
from Open Link.
It's ODBC 3.5 compliant.
We provide our own open client APIs,
which are roughly
equivalent to Oracle OCI.
There.
And we have an open server.
An open server is an API, a library,
that allows you to write the server
side of the open client interface,
so that you can provide
handlers for language,
RPCs, and so forth,
in a threaded server environment.
Essentially, this was built in 1990,
carried forward, and it was a precursor
to application servers.
But you can do everything in C, C++.
You can get very high-speed
performance out of this server engine.
A number of tools for development
purposes are available on this
platform and some solutions.
The tools that are provided,
the WebObjects plugin is available.
Apple Engineering produced a plugin for
WebObjects that uses our JDBC driver,
and it's been widely used now by a
number of vendors to produce solutions.
We have provided a real basic
plugin for the real basic product.
Version 5.1 now is available and it has
a plugin that we've provided that's been
very well received by the RealSoft folks.
Runtime Labs has provided
support for our servers,
our interfaces, using their framework,
which allows you to use the
interface builder to create
database-driven applications.
It's a very nice tool.
Blue World has provided ASE support.
There's a number of additional
third parties that provide tools,
to enable you to build either
client server applications
or web-based applications.
And of course the JDBC driver can be
used in a JBoss environment if you want
to build EJBs that deal with databases.
In terms of solutions,
Power Easy I'll be talking
about a little bit later,
and the same with Inovion.
RiskWise was mentioned earlier this
week as an interesting customer.
They're a credit bureau and
they have over 200 XSERVs.
They have custom-built software to
handle their particular application,
but it's powered by Sybase underneath
all that middleware that they have built.
Quadbase is a good partner of ours.
They provide a reporting
solution for our products.
The TOLUS group can be
used to backup to tape,
from file system to tape.
And so when we backup files
in our backup databases,
we write them to the file system and the
TOLUS group BRU utility can be used to
then back them up to tape if need be.
LiveTime is another partner,
and MindWrap is a very interesting
web content management partner.
And I understand there's a
person from MindWrap here.
Can you stand up?
Maybe not.
There he is.
Okay.
All right.
So anyway, once again,
migrating from SQL Server to ASE,
we provide some tools.
To make that possible,
to migrate both the schema and
the data from SQL Server to ASE.
This one tool is provided by a
company called Schema Research.
It's called SR Migrate.
And then Sybase provides a tool.
It's called Power Designer.
And it has been extended with a transfer
plug-in to allow you to import the
schema from just about any data source,
build a data model,
and then push that model to ASE.
With the transfer plug-in,
you can then take the data represented by
that source server and transfer it into
ASE using our bulk transfer facilities.
Very high speed.
So it's...
We're trying to make it as
easy as possible to do this.
I have three case studies I'll
go through fairly quickly here.
Power Easy, Inovion, and Schema Research.
Power Easy has built an ERP application,
which is all Mac OS X using
Sybase and WebObjects.
They provide four
packages for e-commerce,
logistics, financials, and sales,
and a whole host of reporting
facilities using the Quadbase services.
Their environment is
basically browser-based.
The application is a
browser-based application.
It uses Apache web server on the
Mac OS X server and web objects
and the adaptive server enterprise.
They provide the total package.
So, XSERVs, Apache, it's a complete unit.
Plug it in, turn it on,
and it's ready to go.
Inovion is a, this is a very big title,
a very hard word to pronounce,
but what it boils down to is
these folks take pictures of your
eyeball and your retina and analyze
them to detect diabetes and other
potential problems with your eye.
And their tests are 90% accurate,
which is greater than a physician exam,
they claim,
and it's a very interesting application.
The...
It's a startup operation they
expect to deploy in about
500 sites in North America.
And they have a workflow agent on each
site that captures the data from a very
high resolution camera and also data
that's keyed in for that particular
patient when the retinal scans are done.
That workflow agent transmits through
RMI to a server in a workflow scenario.
The server stores the
information on a queue,
which is a Sybase table or tables.
And then a workflow process occurs
where various physicians may review
the information that's presented to
them and add some notes and so forth.
And then finally a diagnosis is
made through a series of steps.
A highly innovative
application and who knows?
It looks like it's going
to be able to do some good.
So Schema Research is a consulting firm.
They also have some products.
I mentioned SR Migrate,
but they helped us with the
implementation of a facility to
assist a manufacturing operation
with the running of their factory.
The solution consisted of the
Adaptive Server Enterprise,
Replication Server, RAID,
and ASE Mirrors.
One of the features of ASE is
it will do mirroring as well.
They are very highly reliant upon this
application for running their factories,
so downtime is of
serious concern to them.
In fact,
we displaced the incumbent database,
which was problematic because it could
not guarantee the degree of uptime
required for this particular application.
They are very pleased about the solution.
It's another WebObjects application,
browser-based,
using ASE as their primary data store.
They also have two off-site standby
servers in case of disaster.
They also have a warm standby on the
same site in case the particular computer
in which ASE is running happens to die.
And they also replicate various
database changes in their running
site to their development environment
so that their application developers
have some live data to test with
and to implement new features.
So this customer is very
pleased with the results.
They've been running their
factory now for about three
months using this configuration.
So to conclude,
I just wanted to point out that
Sybase is committed to this platform.
The same software that we've used,
that our most demanding customers
use to run their business is now
available to you on Mac OS X.
And we're also focusing on additional
services Apple is providing this
platform to integrate our database
with to give you the greatest level of
integration possible on this platform.
We're also working with a
number of third-party tool and
application developers to provide
a more complete solution for you.
And we are also trying to make
it possible for you to eliminate
any dependency you might have on
SQL servers so you can have an
all-Mac solution in your enterprise.
Developer's Edition download is available
from our website at sybase.com/mac.
Check it out.
Okay, you can contact me,
any of our salespeople.
Daryl Salas is a systems consultant.
Michael Haynes, I believe he's here,
is a business developer at Sybase.
I mentioned the download site.
All of our documentation is also online.
You can go there.
We don't provide hard copy of our
manuals with our CDs for the Mac.
And of course, the Rendezvous, SNMP,
and Open Directory websites
are available to you as well.